 
PUFF

PUFF is a social application for smokers. Using PUFF users can let others know when and where they are smoking, and others can find smoking partners in a very easy and interactive way.

Our initial aim was to build an app as the idea that we have is personal to someone who would use it and they would wish to have it on the phone rather than accessing it on a computer. However, on detailed analysis and during designing we thought people might be interested to use it on a desktop before using the app if he/she wants to search whether someone else is smoking. Also due to the popularity of tablets and bigger screen portable devices, users might wish to have a different version of our app. Hence we designed our app in a responsive way so that every user is able to use its functionality without any difficulty.

We sketched our ideas on paper and finally completed the initial design. Then we finished our sketching on Balsamiq for creating the app screens with a logo. For the logo we clicked the picture ourselves and edited using pixlr.com and Adobe Premiere. The logo depicts sharing a lighter by which we intend to show the comfort level and making new friends while smoking.

For the development of the app we have used WebStorm (Licensed Student version) as the development environment and AngularJS JavaScript MVW Framework. We are operating on our dynamic data with the help of Google Firebase.

We have created separate views for home, login and search containing html, css and js files in each with codes which are specific to the pages and have app.js and custom.css for codes that are required in multiple pages. Index.html acts as the landing page of our app. 

Workflow:
When the application loads, the index.html page is hit and it redirects the user to the login page. If the user is not having an account, he/she gets an option to create a new user. For ease of usage, we have set the minimum fields’ viz.: email, nickname and the password. We are checking whether the fields (type specific) and are filled and valid before trying to create a user. We are also validating whether user with same email or nickname is already present in the firebase database.

Once the user is registered, the user gets a success message and can now login. The Home page is displayed once the user logs in and on that the user can opt to tap a button to notify people that he/she is out for a smoke and can also write a short message if he/she wishes. Users will be asked to choose his gender on his first login and his current (default) avatar would be shown. We are using Glyphicons for the button used to notify people, to represent the genders and at other places in the application. In the application we are asking the user to share his/her location and saving that in the database once he/she goes out for smoking. We are using that location to mark his/her position in the map for other users to see. The application has a set of navigation links viz. home, map and a menu item for logout and other settings.

To search for users who are smoking, user has to tap on the ‘Map’ navigation menu item. Once the search page loads, user would see all the currently online users represented by markers on the map and their location. We have customized the map markers to show whether the user’s gender and the map and updating the location as a user moves so that real time locations are being displayed on the map for other users to view. We have made the google map interactive and when a user taps on a marker, we are showing who that user is, his/her avatar and their message if they have put any. Beneath the map, user would be able to see them in a list with (+) buttons next to them. Users can view the same details as when clicked on the markers when they click online user’s names on the list. To join an online user for a smoke, he/she would need to click on the (+) button and they’ll be added as their puffing companions on the database. Once they add someone as their puffing companion, they can choose to cancel and select another person. User gets notified when somebody is coming to smoke with him/her. After smoking with companions, once the user turns off his position, he/she’ll be asked how he felt smoking with the one he joined. According to the ratings, we are updating the avatars. 
